# Homework 1
## Filetree

	| Parse.java
	| Parser.java
	| Lexer.java
	\ parsetree
		| Epsilon.java
		| Node.java
		| Nonterminal.java
		| Terminal.java
		| Symbol.java
		| InvalidTokenException.java
		| ParseFailed.java

## Parse.java
Contains the main function of the program. Handle's I/O and instantiates Lexer 
and Parser. The *InvalidTokenException* and *ParseFailed* exceptions thrown by
the Lexer and Parser respectively are caught here and cause the program to print
the parsing failed message and exit.

## Lexer.java
The lexer scans the input (one character at a time, unless the first character
of a multicharacter token is found) and generates a list of tokens. If an
invalid token is found, throws the *InvalidTokenException*

## Parser.java
The parser takes the tokens generated by the lexer, and using the parse table
built for this homework, generates a syntax tree. If a valid syntax tree cannot
be generated, throws the *ParseFailed* exception.

## parsetree
Subdirectory containing utility classes and functionality.
### Symbol.java
The interface (abstract base class), of which the Terminal, Nonterminal, and
Epsilon enums implement. This homework requires java features no later than
those in java 8, but in later versions of java this would be implemented as a
sealed interface. Allows, for pattern matching similar to what is offered in ML
dialects.
#### Terminal.java
Terminal token enum. Additionally carries the actual string the token is
associated with, which makes printing the tokens easy.
#### Nonterminal.java
Nonterminal symbol enum. As seen in the grammar for this homework.
#### Epsilon.java
Epsilon enum. Indicates an epsilon in a grammar, which is used to notate empty
strings. An enum class with only one allowed constant makes this behave similar
to a signleton.
### Node.java
Used to implement your standard linked-list based DAG data structure. Contains
the symbol the node represents and the list of nodes containing subsymbols.
### Exceptions
#### InvalidTokenException
#### ParseFailed
These exceptions don't really implement any additional functionality, they both
could easily be replaced by a simple *RuntimeException*, I just found them
convenient for debugging purposes.